24th of April, 2024

Surprised I never started a planning file for this one. Been reading up on design and layout. I'm not sure there's a good place to put previous battle information. We want the game descriptions below the game image display, and we don't want to move things around after a battle so putting it above pretty much anything doesn't work. So honestly the best place seems like below the game descriptions. But that's so far out of the way the user will never see it.

What I'd like is for the battle information to display over the game images after the user has chosen, and clicking/touching again advances to the next battle. That gives clear immediate feedback without changing the layout. For now let's stick the previous battle element below the game descriptions just so it at least exists somewhere. But we'll move forward with learning the CSS to overlay elements on top of eachother.

Oh, and we should also rework data loading on the main page so that it doesn't cause a refresh when fetching a new battle. That way if users prefer a specific position when selecting games, it is not reset after each battle.

We also need an obvious way to skip battles. I wonder if we should replace the VS at the bottom of the images with a subtle skip link? I'm not even sure the VS is necessary. It's purely decorative.

Actually, we should see if we can learn the CSS for positioning the titles above the images, centered, but still retain a VS in the exact middle between them. Then we could put a subtle (skip) centered below the images. Let's explore this and see what we get.

That worked well. Next let's revisit the game data. There are too many obscure titles included. Let's try hand-picking the number of games included for each platform. Also let's see what the results look like when we use user ratings instead. I wonder if this will give us more of a chance of getting games that are well known. Also let's remove the more obscure platforms (should we include the saturn and dreamcast?).

Oh wait, we can also search by number of user ratings. I bet in addition to requiring a high score, we could require games to have at least a certain number of ratings. This should ensure only well known games are included.

Wow, after looking at the data from this change, this is obviously so much better. I think I still need to think about what the user rating count threshold should be. This also makes me realize that now we can just query by all platforms instead of a handpicked set.

Ah, we tried to deploy our changes, but our remote machine won't run the load games script. I know the remote machine isn't very powerful, but I think this has more to do with poor SQL on my part. Let's review that next.


28th of April, 2024

I'm still no designer, but I'm feeling better about the look and layout of the site. But there are a couple more features I'd like to add. I want to be able to share game comparisons, and hopefully I can use meta tags so images of the compared games will show up when linked in Discord or similar places. That, and any issues with copy (mostly likely in the about page), and I think we can call this finished.

29th of April, 2024

After doing some digging, getting the game comparison images to show up with meta tags is going to be a bit tricker than I thought. Firstly the technology is called Open Graph. Second, it looks like we can only display a single image using meta tags. Based on some research, it seems like the only way to do this properly is to dynamically create a new image file of the two games on request. Luckily I think there are libraries that already do this. We'll have to do more research and messing around.

Dynamically generating images seems to be the correct path. We were able to make an endpoint which, given 2 game ids, will return an image of the 2 games covers next to eachother. Now let's focus on making a page which simply displays 2 games for sharing with friends. Once we have that, we'll look into dynamically generating meta tags for the index.html when the server is serving for a share page.

8th of January, 2026
Just tried to load another project on my server, but I ran into bugs due to an oudated node version. Well updating the node version broke this app. So I'm going to have to update everything here as well. Though I think this is a great example of a case where knowing docker would save me a ton of trouble. I'm still going to try and update this though... since I think it's a good exercise.

10th of January, 2026
Actually, it was just the canvas package that was giving us trouble. So we'll lave it at that. However, I'm still having a very tough time getting this started with my process manager. There could be a number of issues, but one issue I've confirmed is the location of the data base file. When trying to start the build app it creates the data base file in the dir of the process manager file. This isn't the behavior I want. So I'm going to try adding an env that dictates the location of the database file, instead of letting the app decide some relative location. In general we should avoid relative locations.
